# MPU_8086_asm_codes
Contains MPU 8086 asm codes in exe template

The questions of the codes are as follows:

Q1: Write a program to convert a string to uppercase and lowercase. Use Macro. [Hint: Use
ASCII table]. Example -

**Input String**: Final Assignment

**Upper Case**: FINAL ASSIGNMENT

**Lower Case**: final assignment

Q2: Write a program that will create an identity matrix. Take the dimension as input. Use
**Procedure** to create the matrix.

**Input**: 3

**Output**:

1 0 0

0 1 0

0 0 1

Q3: Write a program to count the total number of alphabets and digits in a string. Use interrupt to take user input.

Q4: Write a program to find the frequency of each vowel in a string. Take user input.

**Input String**: Final Assignment

**Array**: 

**Character** a e i o u 

**Frequency** 2 1 2 0 0 

Q5: You are given an array of 10 elements. Create two arrays '**even**' and '**odd**'. Write a code to put the even-
indexed values in '**even**' array and odd-indexed values in '**odd**' array. [**Use LEA, INC, DEC**]

For example:

**Array**

Index 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

Value 6 3 1 4 0 8 9 2 7 5

**Even**

Index 0 1 2 3 4

Value 6 1 0 9 7

**Odd**

Index 0 1 2 3 4

Value 3 4 8 2 5

Q6: Write a program to perform multiplication and division of two numbers and put the results in
memory.

Q7: Write a program which will work for the following equation and store the output in memory.

$$x = {(x - 1)}^2 + {(y - 1)}^2$$

Q8: The Fibonacci sequence of numbers is generated by always adding the previous two numbers of
the sequence. The first two numbers of the sequence is initialized to 1. So the next number of
the sequence will be 1+1=2 and so on.

Example: 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13.....

(First two numbers are 1, 1. The next number is generated by adding the previous two
numbers)

Write a program, in assembly language, that will generate the first 50 Fibonacci Numbers.
Assume that the first two numbers are included. Use loop and procedure.

Q9: Write a program to display the transpose of a matrix. Take a 4x3 matrix.

Q10: Write a program to calculate the number of ones in the binary string of a number.

Q11: Write a program that searches for a character inside a string. Both the string and the search
character should be taken from the user. Once the character is found, your program should
output the location of the character, that is, the index of the character where it resides. If there
are multiple instances of the same character, then take only the first one into consideration.

Q11: Write a program that will put a space in between a letter and a punctuation mark if they do not
have any space in between them. For example, if we have a sentence like –

**Input**: A computer programmer,sometimes called more recently a coder,is a person who
creates computer software.

**Output**: A computer programmer, sometimes called more recently a coder, is a person who
creates computer software.

Q12: Write a program that will find the maximum number from a given array. You do not have to take
inputs from the user. You just have to print out the maximum number. Assume that you have an
array of size 10. Load it with values of your choice.

Q13: You are given two arrays loaded with random numbers. You must add the content of each array
and the sum will be stored in another array. You must print the contents of the sum array. Ex:

**Array** 1 2 3 4 5

**Array** 5 4 3 2 1

**Sum Array** 6 6 6 6 6

Create the three arrays. Load values of your wish in the first two. Place the sum of each of the
element in the two arrays into the third array.

Q14: Suppose, binary representations of random pattern are stored in AL and BL register of microprocessor
8086. Write a generalized ASM code to check the binary representation stored in AL and BL for adjacent
numbers. If the binary representations are adjacent to each other, store 01 H in DL register, otherwise store
00 H. For instance, AL = 02 H and BL = 06 H will store 01 H in DL register.

Adjacent: If two representations are one-bit change away from each other, they will be classified as adjacent
to each other.


